//CATEGORYHEAD Alexa:
Beneath her bravado, Alexa sees herself as a cipher. She can shut her emotions off at will, like flicking a light switch.
Alexa , chameleon. Maybe she imitates other characters very noticeably? As time goes on, she acts stranger and more erratic. New agey? Elizabeth Downs, teaching her children about love
Alexa was trying to trick Shiori into taking Mekuru's place
Alexa never hits Mekuru, though clearly there are flashes of hatred sometimes
Cried when she got pregnant. Oh great, really makes me feel loved. "No... it was different. I'd never seen her cry. Ever.' Then IVF is discovered. Paradox. Why would she cry if she was intentional? 'Were they tears of joy?" Clarie stayed silent, uncharacteristically seeming to squirm a bit.
Alexa notices resemblances between Clarie and Mekuru
Alexa isn't a mother who realized she wasn't cut out to be one. She's someone who had always intended Mekuru as a sacrificial lamb, but started feeling for her. That's why the IVF thing is important, actually
When Alexa uses the sad mask, as in she's feigning sorrow, it's when she's talking about herself. Because of her self-loathing, her lies about pity are always about herself
People remember Alexa being quite hateful before. But she mellowed out a lot after she got pregnant
Alexa is led to the slaughterhouse because she sees the shadows run around
Alexa does not hear whispers. She sees shadows. 
in the slaughterhouse dark, it's actually worse for alexa because she can see. bloodstains even when they've been washed.
alexa has comparisons to walleye fish with distinctive glowing eyes, eyeshine, tapetum lucidum
alexa visits fuari chan. she's like a kept lamb. should i call you mary instead? heiress mocked. 
Alexa sees a resemblance between Fuari-chan and Shiori.
an associated motif is the erratic path of moths
As Alexa, she does truth declarations
Wild laughter and Alexa giggles. Are Kusa is wild grass, wwwwwwww.
The apple out of which the worms squirm. Humans seem like worms to Alexa. Adam is a worm. The serpent's tail is merely a worm.
Haha is a pun, for haha as in mother. Alexa makes this pun
Alexa wants to end with her generation. She tries to make the women of sussurokawa infertile. There is an incredible irony, then, that she herself has to have a child
Mekuru calls Alexa a filthy liar or something and it hurts Alexa's feelings lowkey. The slightest tremble.
Alexa feels chagrin because her name is meant to mean defender 
Alexa and Shiori enjoy trading references 


//CATEGORYHEAD  Alphonse: 
The pomp of death alarms us more than death itself'
alphonse likes crossword puzzles. he chuckled. you think sailors are dumb? i've been all over the world. when? shiori asked. hell if i remember. i'll tell you this. we've got just about the worst sand in the world. oh? where's the best sand in the world? the florida panhandle.
alphonse talks about all kinds of junk scams. they're learning new tricks. hand written. 
Arcani when he becomes Alphonse is referred to as a groundskeeper. The irony is the patriarch of the household becoming a servant and becoming much happier for it. making sure eveyrone understands him as a servant helps throw readers off his scent. he's supposed to give alfred vibes. ahhh master bruce.
He's like a father to a lot of us. (referring to alphonse)
Arcani does not particularly show it but he's listless and a shell of his former self after Eris is killed.
It's kinda simpy... Sophia, the love of Arcani's life. But in reality it would be Eris. A small love story between Alphonse and Eris. 
Who was Arcani? Why was he special? How did he meet Sophia or see her or think he did? 



 //CATEGORYHEAD  Hana: 
Breeches. Hanari is a horse girl. 
Hana is into wine. She's a sommelier. Hates red wine. You know, Hana's really picky. Rumueri folk tend to be, Nick muttered.
The strangest mix of revealing clothing and elocution. 
Belladonna berries
Judas goat
Hana, out of desperation, challenges her mother so that she can become the new manager of the games. She beats her mother in a challenge of their basic powers. And is fed her mother. "You've done a foolish thing."
Hanari was instrumental in her father's project. But also: "It's a foolish thing you've done, Hanari."
BEAT (i suddenly feel very sick, knowing what that vision was. (hana eating eris))
Hana dies from sniffing hydrogen sulfide
Hana, the judas goat... was twisted from her intrinsic kindness
sometimes kind people are the easiest to twist. 
Old enough to join the fun and games, Eris acts like a ... groomer, essentially. I seem to remember her always being 'one of the kids' Hanari mused
Eris was seemingly perfect and tranquil. This covered up what an awful person she was.
Chicken coop as metaphor, as well as Bleeding Cone
ironically hannah has bad allergy issues, tag her with a handkerchief
with.. the exception of dangerous ones of course,' hannah frowns. someone planted some giants hogstail here. now we're dealing with it still. oh you actually do work sometimes, huh?

//CATEGORYHEAD  Nick:
nick's mother made the recipe for dryad: "'A dish you can't stop eating, even if you want to. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.'" 
Alexa, recognizing Nick's relative innocence, gives him a choice. "You can choose to know or you can choose to forget. Do you want to be ignorant?"
nick asks. are you gonna sacrifice all of us? alexa says yes without hesitation. 
Nick looks at the family that is increasingly empty and sorrowed, even Arcani. nick thinks about livestock that live happy lives before slaughter, wondering if it's better to be that way.
nick's actual place is the lowest on the hill, reflecting his lowly status. doesnt play a part in the story though. 

//CATEGORYHEAD  The heirs writ large: 
kaobu kakei &Kankaku Kazoku
nick's mother was named maya. hana's mother was named eris. 
all the heirs had a viable path to the root, except for nick, who wasn't truly related to his mother, a great irony
clarie and kyrie had a path as twins
alphonse and hana had a path as father and child
mekuru and alexa having a hard time "seeing eye to eye" because alexa is a sights person, but mekuru is a sounds person. 
nick gets along with everyone. 
Shiori and Kyrie also get along with everyone, but in particular they get each other. 
mekuru is not good at eye contact. alexa searches people's eyes. mekuru listens for tone of voice naturally 
When the heirs' powers are too strong, sight causes them to see scary shadows, hearing causes them to hear blood echoes, smell causes them to smell blood, the strong sense of feeling causes the pain of the dead to come forth, Nick tastes something but it's bittersweet because in many ways he's more innocent 
There are basic heir pairs. Arcani and Alexa. Clarie and Mekuru. Kyrie and Shiori. Like Kyrie, Shiori plays piano.
Extraordinary sensations are used to display the unraveling of the heirs, particularly when Mekuru experiences their perspectives in flashback


//CATEGORYHEAD  Muto:
Muto has a strange relationship with his wife. he seems to resent her.
Muto is an actual detective. Works with Kyrie and even clarie 


//CATEGORYHEAD  Mekuru:
Mekuru calls Alexa a filthy liar or something and it hurts Alexa's feelings lowkey. The slightest tremble.
Alexa tries to send Mekuru away 
As Mekuru gets more and more of the powers of the sensory people, she also relives memories more strongly when she looks at places. She gets the ability to have a more first person perspective of the memories she experiences. This would be the kaobu's memories
Whenever she experiences these memories she has strong empathic identification with their perception of the world that are each dominated by one supreme sense.
She literally experiences things in first person  This culminates with experiencing what her mother feels at the very end, feeling herself as her mother hugging herself. "It'll be fine. I'll make it fine' It's only "saying" it I realize how much the words were forced out in fear 
knowledge is whispered to Mekuru
Mekuru is part Japanese, Part Italian.  
mekuru's name split up 1. m, 2m////u, 3me///u, 4meku/u, 5mekuru 6mekuru p 7 mekuru page 8mekuru hina page
it's more convenient if i can do the red truth."mekuru page is dead." it's effective emotionally too, rather than her being in some weird coma.
Shiori and Mekuru are both sort of love starved waifs
mekuru takes the worm thing personally. when she realizes alexa wrote the poems. she sees herself as the worm. 
Mekuru's middle name, Hina, is the last thing she reclaims. Named as such because her smile reminded Alexa of sunlight through the dark
Shiori keeps Mekuru grounded when Mekuru larps as being emotionless. 
One telltail snitch item would be her ivf papers
opposed goals. mekuru wants to fully understand what happened, doens't tell shiori she's experiencing these bouts of memory



//CATEGORYHEAD  Kurakira:
Kurakira is a very active boogeyman around the village. Kiru like kill, Kiri like cut, kiri like mist
there are mixed stories on whether kurakira is one or two people
Kurakira was behind that one People's Temple murder 

//CATEGORYHEAD  Kyrie: 
Kyrie and Shiori share many traits. One is that both, as kids, played with dead animals. 
Kyrie's death and the association with her elevated sense is frostbitten hands. 
Kyrie has a girlish and cheerful voice. That would help connect her to Shiori more
Kyrie uses fidget spinners and her fidget spinner is a telltail snitch. Kyrie embroiders, and one of her embroideries is a telltail snitch
The girl of darkness... increasingly codependent
Kyrie was going to everyone's houses very openly but she was trying to counsel them and talk them out of it. The hand that reaches for the truth. 
Well... our father was a cheater. i'm sure that's why mom left. though neither of us remember her. 
One telltail snitch is kyrie's book the woman inside the child inside me. the sequel the wolf inside the woman inside the child inside me. 
while it's monika who tricks hana, it's alexa who tricks kyrie
kyrie becomes extremely sensitive to the cold before she dies, always used to dress sunny before that
parallel between kyrie and shiori. "i... see. you were alone in your own way for a long time." alexa hates hearing this. 
kyrie at one point had investigated the mines herself. with clarie. there's... nothing. just a bunch of coal, sulfur, and waterlogged tunnels.
the newpspaer is written by kyrie. kyrie is a hack writer.   



//CATEGORYHEAD  Clarie:
Heiress can't express anger in a modulated fashion. Despite her flamboyant facade, she turns shy, timid, and retiring. Imperious, until pushed to her wits. Has poor behavioral controls.
Heiress crows quite a lot, trumpets herself. Alexa smiles quietly. Heiress hates this.
"old magic knows how to shut up, clarie." 
Scuba Gear and Headphones as Chekov's Guns for Clarie
Heiress was a child broken by sorrow and guilt
Clarie, as Heiress and Kurari, sees her sister as human for once. Weird, strange incident. The seeming coldness of Kirie was immaturity and lack of understanding 
need to incorporate singing from clarie
A fugue is an escape. One voice flees, the other chases, a question and an answer...
Once they board the ferry, Clarie can no longer help them. She says goodbye sort of.
Clarie, despite being soft spoken in her new form, is still quite literary. Heiress read a lot. At some point when Kyrie is having her bird existential crisis, Clarie tries to use the tale of the sparrow to make her feel better. she settles for "it's in heaven kyrie."
clarie doesn't even try to stop the end of the ritual."they'll kill mekuru." to alexa's shock, fear, decision paralysis. 
i want to go with clarie. "... No. I can't. Too dangerous. Don't know enough yet. ""I'm not safe here.""Nowhere's safe. Some places are less safe."
"Are you trying to sacrifice yourr= daughter?"Alexa doesn't even bother responding.
wine in front of me with clarie and alexa. two bottles. alexa tricks clarie's mindreading. alexa drinks the poisoned one but she's immune. clarie is sedated. 
clarie: i guess you win one last time... clarie prods alexa to sing her a song a last time. "no just... sing the nice part."
Kyrie and Clarie became like each other, the person they admired 


//CATEGORYHEAD  Shiori: 
shiori is optimistic at first that they can reclaim mekuru's name by just going through nice memories
When Shiori finds out about Kurakira, she's crushed. 
Vehemently down to her soul defends Kyrie and insists she is not in any way the murderer, which leads to her self implication. 
Shiori is the reason Mekuru has no dark heart.
Monika as another way of showing a bad mother without having it be Shiori's actual mother
Some of the trashier aspects of Diane can be copied into Monika
Shiori watched the end of this universe, and the beginning of the next, Which caused Shiori's hair to turn half white. River Styx... border between life and death... pain. Punishment. Styx is associated with dark waters... works well with part of Shiori's hair turning dark
Shiori sees reductio ad nihilum. In her despair, creatio ex nihilo. Yorick!
stories of shiori's lonesome, nearby the part where people start suspecting her
shiori reanimates nick's corpse lol. his corpse was seen moving. 
Shiori, it IS important, Mekuru snapped. We have no idea how this place works. We need to have everything to prove your innocence. "...and..if...if i'm guilty...?" 'why even ask? you're not.' suddenly i catch a glimpse of her thoughts. she'll hate me, i hear some part in the back of her head whisper. and so she kept staring sullenly at the water 
Some people try to worship Shiori
The person arguing against Mekuru most... isn't Alexa. It's Shiori, and Alexa is simply nudging her
shiori avoids eyes
Monika has a manic need to be somebody. A completely normal emotion taken to an abnormal amount
thus it goes: 1. mekuru argues it's kyrie, 2. shiori denies it, and is gaslit into thinking she brought the woman into life with her mind because of creatio ex nihilo
lamblike tendencies in shiori. black and white appearance.  
Shiori thought that death rituals and all that were cool. But the real thing is shocking. Mirrors Kyrie who didn't understand death. Monika pushed this aspect of her. Shiori feels incredible guilt about what she was led to believe was her cavalier attitude toward death
Muto helps Shiori escape in a coffin
alexa tries to convince mekuru that shiori's powers dreamed up the woman in the mist, kurakira. creatio ex nihilo

//CATEGORYHEAD  Sussurokawan Society: 
inspiration from gnostic and platonic literature. timaeus and hermocrates for example. 
Sussurokawa has a weird crazy amount of diversity. at the very end, as the magic wears off, everyone starts displaying chimera traits.
Prima, Monika, and Muto respectively represent different town perspectives. Prima is a silly holistic medicine woman Wiccan bordering on cultist. Monika is a schizo conspiracy theorist. Muto is normal.
Chimeras as a theme. Cryptids. Dryads, nymphs, sirens, fauns, kidnapping
Fuari-chan as a lamb or livestock
Creatio ex nihilo, Reductio ad nihilu, light consumes dark

//CATEGORYHEAD  The Town of Sussurokawa's architecture and environment:
there are six statues. at the netabare mansion, sophia and adam. at the botanical garden, the dryad and the naiad. at the inn, the angelic sisters where one of the angel sisters covers the other's ear. and then a repeat of these at the courthouse equivalent. 
little candy storefront on the town square. the statues are near the courthouse, as well as sophia's poem

//CATEGORYHEAD  The lighthouse: 
Fresnel lenses are a major motif relating to divinity, revelation, gnossis, and madness. 
Creatio ex nihilo, Reductio ad nihilu, light consumes dark
the fresnel light is a little weird, as if it points downward.
Fresnel lens is viewable from the bottom atrium. Oh. On the floor of the original, there's a mriror floor. 
The one way mirror... acts like a skylight. She could stare up at it from the slaughterhouse. 

//CATEGORYHEAD  The World of Dark: 
Al's atrium is at the bottom of the lighthouse, but there's a reverse freemason atrium right below it. That's where 'the gate' is, and where the vandalized poem of wisdom is
the entrance to the undertower is in a reverse atrium, reached through the atrium in the lighthouse. it has the vandalized poem. 
In the reverse atrium, where there were shelves in the normal one, there are mirrors instead
after passing the gate in the reverse atrium in the lighthouse, once again they pass through a narrow descending spiral passage. this is clearly stone or marble. 
then it seems to go into very an open area but it's huge and dark. 
and yorick can't turn on very bright can barely see in front of you a foot or two. normally he's like a flashlight but now he's only making as much light as a small phone... 
yorick is shivering. this seems dangerous. it... leads to the 
BEAT: I mean, light consumes darkness. there must be some way to get light.
the mines have a sulfur smell
the undertower has many freemason motifs. the masonic mosaic pavement with white and black patterned tiles. instances of the masonic blazing star, a blazing sun, a circle of brass with tendrils of gold and silver. 
through descent into the undertower, the descending individuals undergo continuous death initiation rituals, such as circumbambulation and decapitation of statues. 
much of the world of dark, in accordance with occultist practice, is centered around thinly veiled mocking. alexa fis rather keen on and good at this. this whole temple is... almost like graffitti. it's a grand expression of contempt. 
the grandest expression of contempt is the vandalization of sophia and adam into a single aristophanean archaic human. the statue has the inscription big miss folly. it is circumambulated and decapitated, a reference to osiris. 
the disinheritance of nations is a large inspiration on alexa's satire.
Murky waters, black waters are both a gnostic motif referenced in the vandalized poems, as well as things that appear in the descent into the tower. something like ink. 
Shiori notes the Demiurge is a fool figure
Ruha instead of Sophia in the vandalization
Ur, the worm, instead of Adam. The demiurge 

//CATEGORYHEAD  Tattle Mechanics
The path down into the ToT, which looks like frothy and insipid ink.
Some of the strength of the tower comes from reverse energy flow, relating to ignorance. 
once the spell is nearly done, the entire ocean surrounding turns pitch black. As if it's a giant trough. The stream flowing down into it, resembling both Alexa's dream, and also the slaughterhouse.



//CATEGORYHEAD  The Murders and Trials: 
Monika's corpse is passed off as Arekusa's. She disappears early on as if she tried to run away. Actually she was acting as an accomplice
monika lures people by claiming she knows where prima is. this is how she can fool sharper individuals like kyrie
On their way down, Shiori and Mekuru were present at every death place and murder place, but it's subtle. The reader should be able to remember the rooms when they're talked about, however.

//CATEGORYHEAD  Codex and Cipher: 
Can't we just see how many words are bolded and compare them? "we don't even know which ones are eaten and not eaten though...  "
As they descend through the fake lighthouse, consumption ciphers are revealed with each door opened. This one eats this one, etc.
The sun mouths eat up the darkness.
ἄχος
Consumptio cipher means i can have them acquire journals early on without really understanding what they mean, just like the Kamen rider stuff that inspired the cipher
I should work with chatgpt to get more cool screenshots. In fact maybe I could get all of them to be voynich. That would be cool and immersive

//CATEGORYHEAD  TRUTH DECLARATIONS: 
The general store's walkin freezer was not accessible. 
Mekuru and Alexa share their existence. 
alexa can do truth declarations but uses them to mislead. "lessia page is dead." vs. "alphonse krabb was murdered."
alexa tries to pull a fakeout with the truth declaration that belladonna berries were used in the death of one of the kaobu
Mekuru learns the trick that she can keep bugging Alexa to say a red truth and if she doesn't it probably means something. At some point alexa should use this against her. probably with the shared existence one
Arekusa Netabare is Alexa Page.  


//CATEGORYHEAD  MISC PLOT POINTS: 
Preternaturalness as separate from supernatural
it's acutally a really bright and sunny day during the first murders. strangely bright, the day it all goes down. around that time of year, peopel enjoy waht little spurts of sun they can get.  this creates an interesting contrast, between the earlier and later parts. 
Fakeout, where Alexa tries to convince Mekuru that she's her 'other self'. Fake out that Girl X died
alexa is stunned when mekuru says that shiori is gone. the one thing she hadn't expected was for anyone to be able to find their way out. that means they overcame some kind of escape barrier. 
mekuru gets the ability to make truth declarations when she fully understands and knows the truth. that's when she makes the declaration: Arekusa Netabare is Alexa Page.  
oh, i know. at some point alexa goes to the lighthouse. with kyrie. both to ostensibly fix the lighthouse carousel. highly supsicions but "alexa's body" turns up later.
one of the magi games as kids was WIFOM if there were ones besides just find the magi


//CATEGORYHEAD  4koma
Mekuru's dad is actually a genuine prince who did sperm donation for the heck of it
where do babies come from. multi part. both mekuru and shiori build up increasingly confused notions where they try to incorporate every single idea
fourkoma about um. kyrie's books. 
the birth of a monster one and two, heiress then alexa, alexa tearing up while drawing the aristophanes human. the birth of a kind boy, part three, shows nick, sad reading his mother's suicide note where she says she loves him 
alexa plotting elaborate clarie death, disappointed she just shows up.
mekuru asking about her dad, prince, alexa feeling awkward
the construction of the statue fourkoma. funny at first. one fourkoma has her spending a bunch of money on oil and once again the whole town becomes poor. also helicches being like this is disgusting and puerile, and alexa's like it'll have four arms and four.legs. that's eight. i'm in. 
but the punchline once again is sad, with alexa looking at her ridiculous puerile creation. is this really that great? do you really call yourself a magus, waechner? do you feel proud calling yourself a magus, alexa? . the last shot is alexa staring at it. i guess i just don't think it's that funny. 
daddy must be a prince part two, um... let's go buy some toys. 
oh god i have to run an actual economy fourkoma
mekuru and shiori mocking the puerility of the stuff in front of alexa, an artist scorned. it's SATIRE. 


//ADMONITION General Writing Direction, Infodrip
Simplify. Telltail snitches exclusively take 'items' and they show drawings of the things they want. Oh. They never know when they'll get a Mekuru journal, so they just have to collect journals in general.
Vannaknoes help reveal some of the town's "true" form.  After all Alexa is maintaining an illusion.
The Codex Sussurokawa has strong resemblances to the Voynich Manuscript. Perhaps it has multiple kinds of ciphers, to make it easy on me?
When they interview NPCs, they ask about specific items. Hey, do you have a favorite comb or something?
vannaknoes exclusively guard doors. and we're only going to use them in the lighthouse descent. as they get to each new room, they see questions for the next door. so they have to explore the current floor anyway and piece things together.
try to arrange telltail sntiche items in groups so they tell stories?
Part VI is a bit less about the murders and more about the 'mysterious happenings' like the time limit declaration, and the mysterious lady going around who resembles kurakira, but it is of course Monika
Phoenix Wright dual destiny styled learning bombs during the trial. For example, when she figures out alexa's her mother, on the learning bomb word spread 'prima pagetto' and 'the first page'
Alexa acts as the avatar that lets them talk to people in the past. It works because she was actually there?

