
//CONTENTDIVIDER Section detailing very very very distilled exigence
Alexa Netabare's plan for revenge, the yokes of the Netabare family, and the wish to reach The Origin all form the underpinning of the story.  

Arcani Netabare is the patriarch and founder of the Netabare family. He founded the family after apparently meeting Sophia in a dream. There he is struck by the words that will stay with him all his life. From whence we came. To wither we are headed. Creatio ex nihilo, and reductio ad nihilum.Convinced that the path to The Root was by heightening one's senses, so that they could hear the universe speaking back its secret knowledge, he begins the Netabare family's magus tradition. Over time, he begins developing Sussurokawa Cove, with the help of Constructor Felix Waechner. He creates a secluded community, which hides its real identity from the world. The lighthouse is somehow implicated in this, but I don't think it really needs to be explained to readers. 
//CONTENTDIVIDER Section detailing what Sussurokawa Cove is, or rather what the Netabare family is. It also details the family dynamics of the Kazoku Kaobu
The community is created largely through kidnapping, coercion, and promises of power and prestige. Those with strong potential to be a magus are kidnapped, though children are their prime targets. Another choice target are mythical creatures that can be bred for special traits. By the start of the mediumpast of the story, there have been generations and generations of those within the community, many not even allowed to leave. This would include Muto and Prima. Muto and prima were born there. Hence, some children like Alexa, Clarie, and Kyrie were born in the community. Hana was also born in the community, and is even Arcani's direct daughter. Nick is newly kidnapped. The multitude of ways one can "integrate" into the community does create a hierarchy within it. 

Alexa is the daughter of two "nobodies" in the village. Muto is unambitious, but Prima is incredibly ambitious. She lacks real magical talent, but Alexa has loads of it. When Arcani pressures them to give up their child, Muto stays silent. Hence his name. Clarie and Kyrie's father gives up his daughters, but is notably a major part of the Netabare family. 

The mothers of all these characters are ... Most of them are pretty terrible. Clarie and Kyrie's mother left via a magical pact, which can be used to show the difficulty and magical nature of leaving Sussurokawa. Prima and Muto gave Alexa up. Hana's mother Eris is the worst of them all. She actively participates in the kidnapping of children and the oppressive nature of Sussurokawa. Nick's mother,  Maia, is the only kind one, who truly raised nick with love. 

Most notably, Prima has many narcissistic traits. "You're special and I hate you for it." These inflict themselves greatly upon Alexa who, unwittingly, adopts many of them despite having been, "tabula nearly rosa," actually somewhat kind. See Narcissism and Character Transformation by Nathan Schwartz-Salant.

//CONTENTDIVIDER This section talks about the lighthouse games.

The children, among many other children, are brought to the lighthouse once they reach a certain age to be initiated, though only some return. They participate in 'magi games' which determine their ranking. These games are not solely games of find the magi, but find the magi is among the most brutal. They are also evaluated on their ability to, essentially, show off their sensory prowress. There are powers associated with the main senses. With sight, there is the ability to disguise Sussurokawa, (minor soothsaying), and the ability to see flashes of sight from people's past. With taste, the ability to create foods with certain effects, as long as no one knows the 'secret ingredient'. With hearing, the ability to hear people's thoughts. With touch, the ability to feel people's emotions strongly [which, ironically, leaves Kyrie quite emotionally stilted. Emotions were constant ambient noise in the environment. She could hardly distinguish her own from others.] with smell, the ability to sniff out both potential and mythical creatures that hide themselves among the populace. 

Those who succeed are given better treatment, like better rooms, beds, better food, and even being adopted into the family formally. Even better, they're given apples (as in the fruit of knowledge, duh) which strengthens their powers. 

//CONTENTDIVIDER This section talks about Arcani's setup for Sussurokawan society. 

Sussurokawan society, run by Arcani who shares many similarities with cult leaders, has two major ideas that infuse its belief system. The first is the principle that consumare est coniungi. This principle is to be understood as "to consummate is to reunify" calling to mind a quasiPlatonicGnostic implication of men and women combining. (The obvious interpretation is the act of coitus.) The second principle is the construction around dualities, which manifests in syzygies, rotations&counterrotations, coniunctios. (Syzygies are the partnership or union of two unlike principles, in the case of Gnosticism usually aeons or uthras. Think big picture entities like order and chaos. Coniunctios are very similar, though a bit more prosaic. It's alchemical. It's still quite grand, but it's very human. King and Queen, warmth and cold.) Sussurokawa is constructed around these principles because of the belief in the contrast between the material, false world, and the eternal, unchanging world. The first principle, consumare est coniungi, is a call to reunite with our greater selves to reenter the true eternal world, the image given being that of Sophia leading Adam. This manifests near the courthouse with the statue of Adam kneeling at Sophia's feet. The second principle is still built upon this same theology, but is built to maximize magecraft. It is, in a sense, a very zero sum approach. ##&&Hence the mockery later, consumere est coniungi. It means to devour... its most obvious meaning. But it also means to use up, implying a complete usage of resources.##&& The lighthouse, for example, is the world of light above the world of dark, the chthonic underworld. The "ignorant" children are consumed by the strong very literally, no matter how much "consumare" tries to euphemize it. The same for the essential eugenics breeding those old enough go through. Alexa's later vandalizings make a point of blunter depictions which are more flippant but more honest. 

The Netabare family, secretly run from Sussurokawa, becomes not overtly prominent, but quite clandestinely essential. Over the course of centuries, the Netabare family and its methods sort of pollinate the world of secrets and secret societies. Many secret societies simply follow the trunk and are literally run by the Netabares, such as the Freemasons. Some however are hostile offshoots, such as The Cell which hunts for Shiori. Think the Majestic Twelve vs. the Illuminati in Deus Ex.

//ADMONITION Here is roughly where the events told in telltail snitches start. 

Alexa is actually introduced to the children after, essentially, having been captured. She tried to run away and got lost in the woods and had to learn survival skills. There's some active evocation of Hansel and Grettel going on here. 

The heirs all establish themselves as superiors of the other children. They form the 感覚家族 Kankaku Kazoku, the 顔部家系, Kaobu Kakei. (The first means the lineage of the senses clan, the second means the parts of the face. These have different meanings, obviously, but considering that they'd refer to the exact same group of peopel, it might be hard to justify using both. However, I like both, and they even alliterate together without sharing any words. So I'll try to use both. The second can even reasonably called the visage lineage.) Hana was never really in any danger, but participates in the games as a sort of Judas goat. This leads her to deal the most closely with the other children, and she becomes intimate with things like their dreams, their aspirations, all the things they could be. ("What do you mean something bad happens? Hanari screws up game after game and is just fine.") Nick establishes his talent, and is adopted as a result. Clarie and Kyrie are also sort of family Harvard connections types, but they're also extremely talented and the result of very specific breeding. They have never had to experience hardship like Alexa, and they're quite proud. 

//optimize
This can be improved? Maybe?
(Their father, Satoru, a distant son or grandson of Arcani, aises them strictly and they listen. When they start losing in find the magi to Alexa, their father becomes frustrated with their performance, and starts mulling over kidnapping more sirens. He writes down specifically that he can now that the gift has been established, they can incrementally improve it through the fruit process, which will help make that more of a plot point. They figure this out and in rage and sorrow commit patricide, which, frankly, Arcani hardly cares because he's a simp. )

Alexa, despite being of lower breeding within the family, quickly establishes herself and manages to be adopted directly into Arcani's direct family. (This almost makes her like direct sister to Hanari.) She therefore escapes the "Lighthouse Dorms" which are almost like a school&prison for students.  However, a child she befriended during her time climbing to the top, who she affectionately and mockingly calls Fuari-chan, is still stuck there. Alexa tries to make sure she doesn't get sacrificed. She keeps her company. [Fuari's parents are not explained in the story, nor am I going to flesh them out now. ] Alexa, someone who's lived her life lowkey but still selfishly changes a little bit as a result. To Fuari she is kind. To many others she is aloof, perhaps to a few seemingly 'nice' though that's really to the naive. For example, Hanari has no real problems with her. What Arcani gives Alexa isn't love, but fascination, something Hanari decidedly doesn't want from her father. Similarly, Alexa is openly caustic with Arcani, and justified in how she acts. 

//CONTENTDIVIDER Hana, and her discontents
Hana takes after her mother's insidious role. She is forced to act as a Judas goat. Think Promised Neverland. (There are still issues I have with this. 1. It seems even the young children it should be immensely obvious what's going to happen. What's the point of a Judas goat if they don't have a choice, anyway? 2. In practicality, where does that lead them?) Ultimately, her relationship to her mother is what starts the main tragedy of the story. Clarie and Kyrie get better and better at being kurakiri, (causing more children to "lose"?) and also project their relathionship with their parents onto Hanari. This leads to increasing paranoia with Hanari. Hanari eventually gets an especially close look at what happens to the children. She breaks down and kills her mother. Arcani is perturbed by this. He had never realized how important Eris to him. Eris was sort of like the Alpha to his Shadow, his lieutenant, who never wavered in loyalty and the only one as long lived as he. In a rather disgusting rage, but "in line" with Netabare custom, Eris is prepared into a dish and Hanari is forced to eat it. "It's a foolish thing you've done, Hanari." This breaks Hanari, who was already being warped and twisted by her role and also the whisperings of Kurakiri.

Now in charge of the magi games, Hana breaks down and her mind opts for the "most ethical" choice. She kills the children all at once. Painlessly, using carbon monoxide, something that makes them feel like they're simply falling asleep. Fuari-chan is among those killed. Though basically it's all of the children besides the heirs. Arcani can hardly even care. She's right. They do have all the heir spots filled for now. The rest of the heirs are actually shocked. Nick. Alexa. Clarie&Kyrie. They're shook, but life tries to go on as normal. Alexa tries to cope, knowing it was just a sped up version of what was going to happen, anyway. At some point they're all fed golden apples that heighten their senses greatly. This is where they start breaking down. Clarie starts hearing the whispers. Kyrie starts feeling perpetually cold, chills from ghosts, you know. Nick... Well, we can see he starts tasting bitter things but it doesn't really have to be elaborated on. Hanari can't get rid of the perpetual smell of blood, and it affects her taste as well. She starts refusing to eat. She becomes gaunt. Alexa herself sees the shadows on the ground. 

The children's souls are motifed as their blood echoes: the whispers, the shadows on the ground, the smell of blood, the perpetual cold. These echoes, like shadows, are bound to the Earth. (As in literally, shadows can only exist on physical surfaces, as a contrasting deficit of light)
//CONTENTDIVIDER The truth
The heirs are all led down to the slaughterhouse, where they see plainly what became of the children. At this point it was eminently clear to every heir something insidious was happening, and they probably did not survive whatever happened to them when they were spirited away. But even Alexa, with her precocious maturity, is shocked by the reality of it. 

In that dark cold room, there's the sound of subterranean water rushing. The slaughterhouse is multiple levels. You can see where the blood seeps downward at the edges, down to the lower level. In the lower level, it drips into a trough, where it is gathered and then thrown into a freezer. The whole slaughterhouse is a microcosm of Sussurokawa. Alexa is particularly terrified by it. It's so dark, and the only thing that can be seen is that light shining from the top from the skylight that's a oneway mirror. This image leaves an indelible insidious mark on Alexa who starts plotting her long term revenge, involving sacrificing the entire Netabare family. It is also the origin of her visceral hatred of apples. Clarie and Kyrie...well. Clarie as Heiress puts it directly. '"I don't want to be me anymore.'" Nick deals with the death of his mother but overall is probably the most well adjusted. Arcani realizes, amazingly, he doesn't give a shit anymore after losing Eris. Hanari continues to break down and become more frail and fragile, and Nick tries his best to take care of her. Seeing the family in this destroyed state, but particularly Hana, Nick agrees to Alexa's longterm plan. (At this point, clearly timeskip things occur. The timing of all these things... particularly Alexa going to The Clocktower... is a bit up in the air. Different options include going after all this, or interspersed with all this, but at any rate she does become a famous Brand rank magus. Nick keeps making things that are sold that are the main livelihood of the Netabares. Kurakiri keeps killing. Arcani suffers from guilt to what he did to Hana. He pretty much openly accepts what Alexa feeds him. "Made something delicious for me, I see." I supposed his guilt and his magus mind have determined that Alexa taking the family head and enacting whatever plan is the best course of action. The sailor dying of scurvy tale despite being a soothsayer.) 

//CONTENTDIVIDER The beginning of Alexa's plan
Alexa feeds the entire town foodstuffs that make them a. forget who they are and repress their powers, and b. become ironically their better selves. This is all in her preparation for a grand ritual sacrifice of the entire Netabare family, the entirety of Sussurokawa, in order to reach The Origin. Irony and scathing mocking are a major part of the ritual, as Freemason stuff tends to be. In particular, the irony of reducing the family of secret knowledge to total ignorance, even of their own sins. She also prepares them as if they're sacrifices. She mocks them as not being Adam and Sophia, but the Demiurgic combination of Ruha and her child Ur. She is not Wisdom, but Little Miss Folly. 

There are many levels to this game of Find the Magi. First, she must make the "game announcement", or the active challenge. Second, she must kill as a mockery of their tutelary dieties, their patron gods. She positions herself as the devourer of both Sophia and Adam. She makes active mockery of many of the famous phrases. Consumere est Coniungi becomes Consumare est Coniungi, like cannibalism. It also becomes Coitus est Coiunctio, mocking the meeting of man and woman, the act of procreation. Thus, another thing Alexa does is render the women of Sussurokawa infertile. She renders any high minded notion of illumination by Sophia, instead as immolation, and by herself. Light does not extinguish dark. It consumes it. The ignorant are immolated. The ignorant are consumed. She thus likens the entire Netabare family to a foolish "Fuari-chan." 


//CONTENTDIVIDER The new town
Over time, everyone in Sussurokawa forgets who they actually are, and begins to think they're a peaceful coastal village. Opportunistic and self protecting, traitorous magi and chimeras who formed its society start believing they're fishermen and bakers and picklers and farmers, and they're not even great at any of those jobs, much to Alexa's chagrin when she still has to make money. Bestial and fantastical traits disappear from ostensibility. Thus, they have not only lost their memories, but have been fed false ones.Arcani forgets he's even head of the family, and is symbolically deposed to simply being a groundskeeper, "a servant who know all yer moms and dads." Hanari still bears her trauma, and becomes a sort of manager of the botanical garden too kind, too generous to pull even weeds. Her name goes from  Hanari Netabare to Hannah Crecer, and her mother is remonikered as Elysia Crecer. Clarie and Kyrie, who were Kurari and Kirie, strangely have a reversal of many of their traits. Clarie who was loud, obnoxious, and imperious and talkative, becomes taciturn, imitating her sister's previous behavior. Kyrie becomes at least quite extroverted and talkative. Hence, when going through their old diaries, it's easy to make the mistake of switching them around. Nick... he's always been Nick. But I guess he was like Nikuchi before. Arcani Kaku becomes Alphonse Krabb. Alexa Page was, of course, known to the magus world as Arekusa Netabare. Here she settles for the simpler name of Alexa Page. 

Clarie and Hannah become dilletanttes of sorts. Kyrie in so many ways takes over the caregiving role from Clarie. She also becomes a psychologist set on fixing mental health within the town. Nick becomes a respected businessman within town, managing the water supply, the farm for Hannah, and also the general store. Alexa acts as the castellan and is a do it all, workaholic. It should be ntoed that at this point, Alexa is living quite an elaborate double life. Because she is still continuing the Netabare family's work essentially by herself, which is only possible because they were already so reticent and retreated from society. 

The town, with their memories being violently erased and replaced, have varying reactions. Some it sticks to their psyche just fine. Quite a few still can't get rid of visions of cults and magic, and many of those have the extreme reaction of becoming conspiracy theorists who hate cults, notably Monika, though it's quite insincere. Others have the extreme reaction of becoming cultists themselves, notably Prima. Many still do have those visions that manifest as the mental health problems that Kyrie wants to cure. Muto is one such example. One prominent "delusion" in the town is that of disappeared children. Though there are no official records of these children existing. And within the town, accounts of where they went, and who took them vary. Muto is one level headed person who also knows deep in his heart his daughter was taken, but he can't even remember her name, and he knows from the outside it must seem like an absurd delusion, and as a respectable citizen he only maintains it in private, maintaining his "daughter's room", a shrine to a daughter whose name he can't even remember. The grand irony, which again plays into Alexa's grand prank, is that they themselves gave their children up willingly. They are essentially complicit in the kidnapping and unnatural selection, though their memories refashion themselves as the victims. 

//CONTENTDIVIDER The path is her child
The great irony is that Alexa discovers a [seeming] path to The Origin, The Root. That path is... motherhood. Ironic, given Alexa's desire to end the family with her generation. She herself doesn't want a child. But she comes to the conclusion that ontogeny recapitulates cosmogeny. She looks at other genetic relations, noting that the word genetic derives from "genesis." Two other possibilities present themselves using this route. There is Clarie and Kyrie, who share a connection as twins. (Powerful, but it hardly reaches backward?) And there is the relation of father and child, which in this case is father and daughter. This path is actually not particularly strong. The most powerful possible link, is that between mother and daughter. The helix of DNA in this case strongly matches the crossing over paths of the Tower of Tattle, and the sugar phosphates form a "codex." Codices are generative in nature. 

Codex, of course, besides being the spine of a book, means "tree trunk." It is the path to The Roots, The Origin by literally tracing the branches through to the trunk through to the spine. This is the ontogenetic route. In order to ensure this route, Alexa undergoes IVF (which actually doesn't bother her much), fully ready to exploit her child to reach The Origin. Partway through her pregnancy, however, Alexa finds herself becoming emotional. In her role as castellan, where every member of Sussurokawa has no memories, Alexa has a reputation for being aloof, distant, and polite but in rare moments scathing. No one complains because she is a sort of polymath Renaissance woman on whom the entire town relies (unaware that she forced this situation on herself by convincing a bunch of magi, some half fantasy creature, that they're all fishermen). In practice, any negative, distant, and narcissistic traits that Alexa had as a young girl are amplified in her role as the castellan, where she plots her revenge. 

When Alexa becomes pregnant, her personality subtly shifts. She "mellows out" according to everyone else. In fact, Alexa cries multiple times during her pregnancy, showing more emotion than anyone had ever seen of her. ("Even my mother has hormones," Mekuru says coldly) Thus, Alexa experiences the first pangs of regret and remorse she's felt since she started her revenge plot, as well as the first unwilling empathy with the Sussurokawa citizens who have, exactly as she planned, now become kind individuals ignorant of their own sin. Alexa gives birth to Mekuru, naming her Mekuru Hina Page. the middle name Hina being a surprisingly earnest one, a simple reference to sunlight and kindness. The day Mekuru is born Alexa experiences a feeling of sunlight that fights through the dark, even as murky waters slow it down. Alexa desperately does not want to feel these things. 

Against her will, Alexa begins experiencing many of the emotions that a true mother would. Often finding herself exasperated with Mekuru, and in some ways spoiling her, Alexa can be very touch and go with Mekuru, pulling back in kindness, unable to fully be cold. Alexa is still a broken individual. She can't give up on her path to The Root or The Origin, even if she can hardly comprehend why. All this while Alexa is very actively telling herself she does not love Mekuru, that she cannot love her. Alexa is not a very good mother, honestly. Though, given everything broken about her and her conscious aspirations, she ends up being much better than she should be. Lucky for Alexa (or unlucky), the genuine frenetic busy-ness her life is filled with means she has reason to avoid Mekuru as much as possible. Thus, Alexa leaves Mekuru's raising to the former Kankaku Kaobu (It takes a village of darkness). The fact that they become genuine good "aunts and uncles" to Mekuru creates incredibly mixed feelings within her. 
//CONTENTDIVIDER The search for another route
Unconsciously, Alexa begins searching for another route. Though she tells herself it's merely for maximizing the chances, the spell, and the efficiency, it's really because she doesn't want to hurt Mekuru. (Note: I still don't have a fully solid reason for why Prima is imperfect. Possibly simply her complete lack of magic talent, which is what made her so envious of Alexa in the first place. "You are so very special." Left unsaid: 'And I hate you for it.') She eventually finds a second route. The route via index, pointing, vestigium legere. As head of the Netabare family, with strong relations to secret societies, she becomes aware of Shiori Novella, who is in possession of The Index. Her white and black hair reflects that she's perceived it, the moment of a universe's death and another's creation, reductio at nihilum and creatio ex nihilo. Though Alexa may or may not be aware of the full extent of it, she understands roughly that Shiori Novella can "peek ahead", and flip the pages of the book to where she desires it. What she may not be aware of is the limitations that come with the ability. Once a future is read, it becomes deterministic. Shiori isn't sure if the act of observation fixes the future, or if it's fixed before she reads it. But that's why it scares her, and why she uses it almost never. However, she is targeted for her ability to use it.

This ability to "flip through the pages", the index method in contrast to the codex method, contains within it a sense of intellectual impatience, fitting for the Netabare family whose name means spoiler. Vestigium of course also has some notion of the word "trace." Thus there is an active feeling of searching for clues, or for proof that there was a previous observer, a sort of ultimate entity. It's like looking through the book that is the universe and trying to see if someone else had already checked it out of the library, and left their own notations. Hence, this way of going through is almost like a more direct and proactive search for God.

//CONTENTDIVIDER Shiori arrives in town, Mekuru grows up lonely
Of course, Shiori herself is just a normal girl underneath it all. Much like Alexa's daughter Mekuru who is now eight. Mekuru has grown up lonely and unable to read her own mother's emotions. Even though Mekuru is young, she has a frail and cracking heart that gives room for darkness to grow. Alexa repeats some of her mother's mistakes. But probably the worst thing is that Mekuru has been blessed with ears worthy of the Kankaku Kaobu. She can hear the whispers of the land. She can hear the children's whispers. Sussurokawa is a perpetually frightening place for her, and Mekuru is well aware that usually hearing voices indicates mental illness. ("Is... my  head broken?")

She is also, like her mother was once upon a time, taken with the idea of distant places outside of Sussurokawa. Mekuru wants to see the world, but feels she lacks the courage to. Unlike her mother, she isn't an avid reader. Mekuru, also unlike her mother, is unmotivated to an almost passionate degree. This is Prima raised Alexa strictly, voyeuristically, and opportunistically. They also grew up low status within Sussurokawa. Alexa makes sure Mekuru doesn't want for anything, that she never goes hungry, that she is always warm, and even buys her toys sometimes. In so many ways, Alexa's (completely unconscious) form of love is non-harm. However, she has a tendency to draw back coldly whenever she feels herself getting close to Mekuru. This is in part because of her initial plans to literally sacrifice Mekuru (and herself, to be fair) in the path to find The Root. Even when she plans around Mekuru being involved, she's struck by feelings of guilt, undeserving, and an inability to change how things have always been. Her personal narrative of emotion toward Mekuru has also always been heavy self-denial, a demonstration of Alexa's narcissistic trait of futile attempts at perfect emotional self-reliance. Mekuru grows up with what is essentially adolescent depression as a result.

Shiori has had her own issues in life. Primarily that she's been constantly chased by people for her power over The Bookmark or the knowledge she knows, even if she can barely grasp it. Shiori has lived her whole life with opportunistic adults looking to exploit her and, unfortunately, her time in Sussurokawa is not an exception to this. Having recently narrowly escaped The Cell, and having spent some time in very uncomfortable hiding even, Shiori is sent away from her parents to live with her aunt, under the protection of Arekusa. Shiori's parents are magi who are trying their best to protect their daughter. Members of the Freemasons, they're inextricably bound up in secret societies. (More lore could be made here, but it's venturing into weird territory as well as needless) Shiori's aunt Monika essentially exemplifies the worst of all these kinds of traits. Just like Shiori's parents, she's bound up in secret societies, but she's actually always been a resident of Sussurokawa. Unbeknownst to Shiori's parents, she has also had her mind wiped. (There are some plot issues here, but honestly I think we just have to gloss over them.)

//CONTENTDIVIDER Monika is a bad announcement
Frankly, Shiori's parents do not understand exactly what is going on in Sussurokawa. But the head of the Netabare family, with personal vouching from Monika, is the only thing they can remotely trust. The ability of The Cell to locate and capture Shiori is that much of a threat, the situation that dire. Monika is influenced by Alexa to push hard for it. Alexa makes certain promises to Monika. Monika, eager for status and little bits of wealth, readily agrees, and even puts on an act of fawning love in front of Shiori's parents. (There is also a subtle disconect between Monika and Shiori's parents, as Monika now sometimes claims to hate cults and magic and so on)

Shiori hates Monika. She gets scary vibes when she's pretending, but Shiori decides to trust her anyway. And while Monika doesn't directly harm her at this point, once they're in Sussurokawa her contempt is clear, and Monika mocks Shiori and her background. In the beginning, Monika doesn't even believe in magic, but simply hates occultism, because she is part of that particular extreme reaction to the brainwashing. (Presumably there's some subplot involving her and children, but making Monika sympathetic would just be getting so deep in the weeds for a character I don't care about) Later on, as she starts getting her memories back, Monika will actually start actively provoking Shiori to do little displays of magic around town. 

Shiori, having literally been part of the Freemasons, is already a weird little kid that plays with dead bugs, tries to do surgery on dead birds, and does strange death initiation rituals. She even tries to get Mekuru to do some. This is why Mekuru finds Shiori so frightening at first. However, over time, Mekuru's perception of Shiori changes from incredibly frightened to incredibly annoyed by her. It takes a while for them to actually become friends. Mekuru thinks that Shiori is a know it all, and resents her because she sees Shiori as worldly and welltraveled. Shiori, in spite of everything, is actually a little unaware of this, because she's desperate to make a friend. This leads her to showing off more of her know it all knowledge thinking that it impresses Mekuru and will make Mekuru like her more. 
//CONTENTDIVIDER Mekuru gets to know Shiori
Mekuru's opinion of Shiori turns around as Shiori gets her into reading. (Perhaps more.) Mekuru's interest is piqued because her mother is an avid reader. (Probably the biggest library is at the manor.) Over time, the two grow closer, as both of them get to experience what it's like to be a kid for the first time with each other. Mekuru, taking after her mother, is a little bit precocious and acts overmature. At times, her sarcasm gets biting, again like her mother. Shiori meanwhile is a little clingy. To Mekuru's surprise, when Shiori is around other people, she's quite meek. But around Mekuru she's a gabbing Gabby. "A tendency to babble border on burble. Fast incessant pitter patter like a brook which makes its own small pond."

//CONTENTDIVIDER This area divides up where Shiori and Mekuru friendship events go. 

Of note, over the next few years, as Mekuru gets older, her mother teaches her survival skills. This is why Mekuru is outdoorsy. This is Alexa's way of teaching Mekuru to survive. That was one of her backups for what would happen after Alexa died. Alexa also goes in hard on teaching Mekuru life skills like budgeting. She doesn't have the time to teach them to cook, so she asks Nick to teach them to cook, at which point they insist on making their perpetual stew. Nick, nice guy that he is, relents, and that's why they all have to eat a really bad stew. 

At one point, Alexa actually tries to send Mekuru away for boarding school or something. She wants on one hand for Mekuru to be safe away from everything, but // maybe also to make sure she doesn't get too close to Shiori. // This is the first time in Mekuru's life she starts acting rebellious. In the storybooks, it was the princess who was meek. But in reality, Mekuru was the willful one when they were children. 

At another point, Mekuru is having a birthday down at the marina, where everyone is celebrating except her mom basically. Mekuru remembers this one particularly bitterly. Her mom was probably doing Netabare stuff. 

//ADMONITION Make sure that in all of your highlight notes, like such, you also add clarifying comments, like such. 








