Whoops. I lied! I'm actually a nervous, stomach twisted wreck again. Last night, as I tossed and turned onto my 39th sharp pebble of the night, the stabbing pain made me realize that if this is a place magically constructed from mine or Shiori's memories, then there's a good chance I'll have to meet <EM>my memories.</EM>

I mean, I guess that's the whole point of this homecoming. Reclaiming memory, or identity, or my name, or <EM>whatever.</EM> Which is all great and wonderful, but when every experience in the magical tower tells you that your amnesiac past was so dire it was worth sinking it to the bottom of a magical ocean, 

I'd be more than happy to leave it forgotten forever, but when I even intimated that Shiori's cheeks were already pre-emptively puffing up. 

"Do we really have to do this?" I ask, rocking back and forth on my heels listlessly as I watch the fire's embers die down. Gotta make sure it's out fully before pouring water over it.

"Of course we do," Shiori replies with her know-it-all voice. "It could still be smoldering underneath there."
    
I already knew that. That's not what I meant. I already knew that, Shiori. But whatever. Glancing at her, I notice something surprising. But wonderful.

"Are you... shorter than me right now?" I ask.

"...Perhaps a little bit. Why?" Shiori replies.

"Nothing. I just like seeing you as a tiny pygmy in gothy clothing."

Now her cheeks are really puffing up. But she doesn't say anything, and just keeps petting Yorick's head, shivering all the while. This morning's a good kind of crispy, and rather sunny despite being cold. It's less dismal than usual, some part of me seems to say, as if my nagging memories are also smoldering beneath the surface.

"Alright," I say, pouring the fire out finally. "I think we're ready to go. Finally."

I, of course, at a towering 150 or so centimeters (with some rounding) am prepared to take on a leadership role. Someone has to. 

Both of us are sticky, tired, and gross. Haggard would be a kind statement. I lead the way, faintly aware that I don't really know where we're headed, but looking back every so often to take cues from Shiori. If it were <em> really </em> up to me to choose our destination, I'd want to go nap somewhere soft and warm. Is that an option? Last night was the first time I was literally able to sleep since the literal start of my remembered existence. 

And it sucked. 

Murders and magic and memories seem so unimportant next to exhaustion. Or hunger. Or the aching feeling all through my my back and my frickin' <em>ribs</em>.

Tired or not, into the woods we go, up the slope, from dry and loose sand dunes to patchy grass and splotting dabs of trees; trees which let the sunlight break through their orange, yellow, and green crowns. 

Splotchy's the best word for it all. Seriously. Everything's in a two tone war. The sand is giving way to grass. The verdant evergreens are fighting a losing battle against the increasingly anxious colors of the deciduous trees. And that beaming sun's making an admirable breech through the shadows.

At the same time, creeks and streams run downhill all over the area like they own the place, with our only way through sometimes being big rocks semi-conveniently placed, clearly human hands trying to keep future feet from getting wet. But it's a futile effort. There's too many intersections, streams a little too high, and all over the babbling brooks run amok.

It's like the whole area can't help but express itself in conflict. It's unsettling and beautiful and new and familiar all at the same time. There's something there, tugging at the reaches of my memory. Like it's about to pull me in... but not quite. It's the feeling of teething, except it's my baby teeth growing back.  

Speaking of babies, I can't help but notice Shiori's... currently not great with physical exertion. Hugging Yorick to herself like a teddy bear, she's got eyes like daffodils with morning dew, and she's breathing like she just ran a whole frickin' marathon. Jeeze. 

"Stop...please, a m-moment..." Shiori's body slumps so hard I worry she's about to fall over. And she sort of, er, <em>does</em>, languidly drooping against a tree trunk, head resting against it like it's her boyfriend. 

I guess I can't be too harsh here. Uphill serpentine paths with downhill serpentine streams. It takes a big toll on these small bodies. Or at least it <em>should.</em>I must have been some kind of athletic child prodigy, the way I'm breezing through. 

"You look so smug right now, even I'm getting annoyed," Shiori mutters.

"S-smug? You're imagining things." Oops. Is there a smirk on my face I need to wipe off? Time to deflect. "Why the heck are we kids, anyway?"

As I say this, I can't help but notice how much bigger Yorick looks now that we're so small. Or is he actually bigger? Like to match our younger personality's, he's also been resized -- like a stuffed animal. His inky body's taken on this fringed, soft-spiky look that I can only guess is trying to cheer Shiori on. He always looks frazzled, but I think he feels a little guilty right now.

"Oh Yorick, there's no need to feel bad." I wonder what those inky tassels feel like...  I reach out to pet him, but Shiori not-so-subtly pulls away like she suddenly needed to pace. 

Can I be real for a second? I'm pretty sure she just doesn't want to share. 

"Could be — I think it's because some Constructs make your physical embodiment match your mindset," she finally says. "That must be happening to us?"

"...So, we're both just immature mental twelve year olds in arrested development. Like, noticeably less mature."

"Mmm, maybe? I bet coming back here's caused a regress," she says, hugging Yorick tightly, obliviously, almost petulantly. That last bit might be bias. 

But there's a bigger issue right now. The whole mental regress thing feels like it could be a major obstacle. Especially if...

"Um, are we gonna run into people? What happens if we <em> do </em> run into people?" I ask, feeling a weird nervous tingle run through my fiddling hands. 

People being townspeople. People from our past. People I can't even remember.

"I'm not sure. I still haven't figured out the logic of this Construct. Is it digging from your memories? Both of our memories? I didn't... expect to come back here. I need time to think." Her voice comes out soft and pensive. Almost plaintive. //optimize

Who can blame her? With what little memories I have, I can guess Sussurokawa was probably some stuck-up, podunk town, where every resident had a mean old provincial outlook. My chest tightens just thinking about it. 

"So, should we avoid them?" I ask.

"No. They might be able to help... And they should be easy enough to manage, 'cause I bet they'll act like NPCs. Thinking about the places your name could be hidden... they might be able to help us find it or something," she ponders, clicking her tongue all the while. "Like your diary.  One of the NPCs might know where to find it." //optimize

"I'm not sure how you're so sure I kept a diary," I grumble, though I don't know exactly what an NPC is. Though I can guess? And why would they know <em> where it is?</em> How bad at keeping secrets would I be if every Joe Schmoe in town knew where I kept it?

"Of course you kept a diary," Shiori frowns. "You were just that kind of girl."

"Was I now?" I mutter. Feels awfully strange... no, maybe just awful, having my own personality explained to me. A flutter in my belly. A tingling in my limbs. And this feeling like there's way too much spit in my mouth. "How far are we, anyway?"

Shiori wracked her brain. "Ummm, I think we're really close. We're gonna get up to the cliff right across from the lighthouse, and you can see the town from there. Then... your house is close to that. It's always been suuuper high on the hill."





part of hsiori singing to herself

 kyrie says h good god a lot

shiori: but...but...! how were you googling things!!!












