
 //!!

"Oh poor me," Alexa muttered, put off by the self pity. //!!

People... you have to listen to what they say, Kyrie said. They're not just bundles of emotions. They believe things. Sometimes crazy things. Sometimes very desperately. Thoughts are real things. I've learned that in all my years as a psycholgoist.  I thought that if I just came in and sat and empathized with them, and felt their 'true' feelings, that I could coax them through solidarity. And... it works sometimes. But it can be so destructive. You know.  I could empathize with someone perfectly. 100percent. let's say I believe that. I feel every single emotion they've got. But you know what I'm basically saying<? That I don't have to listen. That I'm going to enter this interaction, and I'll be the changer, and they're gonna be the changed. The things peopel believe... the things peopel think aren't just pretty decorations on top of their feelings.  //!!

Clarie was quiet. Sometimes words aren't enough. I don't get people. Honestly. Don't get Alexa. Why she likks being mean sometimes. Why Hana' s so desperate. Even though I can ... hear the rumblings. The thought machinery. Alexa'll say  "mean thing here!" Hana'll say "Dajiefw!" I can imitate it before they even say it. But I still don't get it. All I can do is keep thinking about it. And hope that one day thoughts become feelings.  //!!

Clarie's startlingly good impressions were so bizarre. A lachrymose tone shifted without warning to a breathy one. Then suddenly like pin pricks. She could've been an actress.

Clarie could've been an actress if she cared enough Nick said. Not if she doesn't learn to move her face. Alphonse said.   //!!

Alphonse has a soft spot for them. You can't call the way he loves Hana a soft spot.. she's just his daughter. For them... they're like kittens.  //!!


  
  ---
  NEW CAPTURE 
  ASP-c-Alexa-Hanari: Are you going to keep acting like a child? What do you think happens to them? Do you really think we just ship them back home? Have you ever seen a ship?
  Part VII is all about reliving the Kaobu's memories. 
  While also solving their murders. 

  ASP-c-Shiori-Nick He says even meaner things when you're gone!

  ASP-c-Mekuru "Wow, everyone here is just competing for mother of the year, huh?"

  
The first misconception. This place is a hunting ground for the Netabares. They take them away in ships. 
The second misconception. This placed *used* to be a Netabare base in ancient times. The Rumeuri hill members are all descendants. 


Nick, have you ever wanted to be a woman?
Um. Sorry? 



the final night is missing from memory. in part vi, the reader is led to believe that mekuru was actually sent away with the doctor. 
ASP-c-Shiori I don't want tomorrow to come.

ASP-c-Mekuru Are you telling me my name is the japanese equivalent of "page turner?"
Or "turn the page," Shiori suggested. 
IVF- genetic results, part japanese and italian 

CIPHERED: Heiress killed their father. 

Kyrie is the public defender

my mom's laughing. she looks genial. 

How to get more Clarie involved?
part of me wnats to go' finally', she's human.
but something about that face is more disconceritng than anything. 
"she's genuinely laughing" Shiori says. 'but something's weird about it... she seems sad. and angry.""


ASP-c-Monika, disappears, probably after the garden party
so they stay with Nick. 
ASP-c-Alexa needs to express a pure form of hatred. 

utilize the fact that maya is obviously a woman, and nick isn't 

