
//!! Episode 05 The Codex Assistant 

In episode 5, Alexa introduces herself, but this time as the assistant to The Codex Sussurokawa. ✓
Nx-e5 she shows them that it's one week before the first murder.✓
-cont: Alphonse and Monika come in. ✓
-cont: Alexa suddenly disappears✓
-cont-Alphonse: Hoo boy, I'm sorry to bring this lady around like this, but she insisted. ✓
-cont-Alphonse: Why, if it isn't lil' Shiori! ✓
ASP-c-Alphonse: What's the name of your friend, Shiori? ✓
ASP-c-Shiori: His name's Yorick!✓
ASP-sn-Shiori'sJournal //TTSAcquisition Shiori 1. Talks about heading to a new place. I'm tired of going away from place to place. ✓
ASP-c-Alphonse-Shiori "Little Shiori," he said with a big smile. "You dropped your magic show pamphlet at my place." ✓

Near-Shiori-Alphonse Memories come flooding back. That Shiori was left to her own devices, and Alphonse was the closest thing she had to a guardian here, and you couldn't call him much of one. One time she convinced me that we should try to ride down stream in a raft. 'Not scared of water back then." My mom was furious. ✓

//!! Sub-episode: The Creepy Peach.

ASP-c-Alphonse. Now you all wait a moment. I will lay down for a good minute. ✓
LOCUS: The Creepy Peach. He lives in The Creepy Peach with Hana. It's apparently because Hana wants to take care of him. But everyone knows it's kinda the other way around. ✓
ASP-c-Hana Introduce Hana.✓
-cont: Hana comes in. What are you girls doing here? ✓
-cont: - Why, you two are smelling wonderful today!✓
ASP-c-Shiori-Hana Shiori sees Hanari in

ASP-eSeance Hana's thirstiness can be an aid here. This can also be the first hint of the town's bizarre makeup.✓
ASP-sn-Belladonna We can reveal that very early on using Belladonna's Journal. I think it's highly appropriate. Introducing the idea of lineage and genetics.✓

ASP-c-Hana Yandere Hana to Nick. Hmm. You haven't been having a little amouerrete have you? Almost like she's sniffing Nick.✓
ASP-c-Nick: Actually, Nick can be introduced this episode. ✓
ASP-c-Nick: Nick actually delivers some meals. ✓
ASP-c-Hana: This place needs more kids. ✓
ASP-c-Mekuru I feel sort of uncomfortable with how she says it. Not in a "danger and suspicion" way. More in a "I feel bad for whoever ends up dating her" way. ✓


//!! Sub-episode: The Creepy Peach-study
ASP-eGarden Perhaps Hanari dresses a bit more licentiously, leading Shiori to bluntly call her a nut gobbler. "Shiori I am begging you to learn how to self filter..." ✓
-cont: I am self filtering, though?✓
ASP-c-Mekuru-Shiori Raid the study. Mekuru's heart starts racing as if she's really just a kid.  ✗
ASP-Mekuru-Shiori: They both realize that the sound of rustling paper is a sign of a TTS being nearby. ✓
ASP-sn-Apocryphon //TTSItem Stock photos of missing children. ✓
ASP-sn-Apocryphon //TTSAcquisition Netabare 1.✓
ASP-react-Netabare 1: It's kinda simpy... Sophia, the love of Arcani's life. ✓
ASP-c-Mekuru-Shiori-muse: What's the relation of this place to the Netabares? ✓
//TTSAcquisition Mekuru 2. What item? Oh it's a book about financial management. ✓

ASP-c-Nick Hannah, I cannot believe we are talking about children when we're not even dating.  ✓
ASP-c-Hannah "Fine, you brute!"// Arghhh! Hannah, come on! Nick glances at us.// I put at the door. "Al's with us. Come on Nick. Don't be a dope." Nick groans and runs out, continuing our little soap opera. And I feel my heart twinge painfully. Shiori's just as quiet.  ✓

//!! Sub-episode: The Creepy Peach-meal
ASP-c-Shiori-Mekuru-Clarie- Nick-Hana Nick and Hannah are will they won't they. Shiori: I always thought they were dating! Mekuru: Huh? Definitely not. They're not dating. I just <em>heard them say</em> they're not dating. // That's what people who are dating say! //No. No it really isn't.  ✓ //!! LATER: Nick: It's... complicated. 

-cont: Shiori: Wow, that smells really good.//It really does.//You don't smell it? ✗

//!! Passage AlphonseForest

ASP-c-Alphonse Alphonse likes crossword puzzles. He chuckled. You think sailors are dumb? I've been all over the world. When? Shiori asked. Hell if I remember. I'll tell you this. We've got just about the worst sand in the world. Oh? Where's the best sand in the world? The Florida panhandle. But that doesn't mean you should ever go to Florida. Never! Shiori said.
-cont: They walk down to town, from The Creepy Peach.  ✓

ASP-eSeance Soothsayer story. Alphonse tells the story of a sailor who could see the future and no wave could crash him. One day he looked to the future and saw himself unharmed on calm waters. You wanna know what happened? He starved! ✓


ASP-c-Alphonse "Shiori, did ya' know I escaped from Guantanimo Bay?" "Really?!" ✓
ASP-c-Mekuru-obsv The town is... diverse? Diverse is an understatement. Maybe I'm just short right now, but one of those fishermen looks like he's 20 feet.  ✓
ASP-c-Shiori "It's not a magic show! It's a ritual!"✓


ASP-c-Mekuru Oh! I know this one! I used to read this one all the time.✗
ASP-c-Shiori Really? She says dubiously.✗
ASP-c-Mekuru I open it up... //made up excerpt// "Yeah, I totally get that."// "Explain it then." // "No," I snap. "What am I, a monkey?" // ✓"Sorry," Shiori says sadly. // I'm sweating because I did not actually understand a lick of that. "Hm? What's this?"// Speaking of budgeting, ✓here's an order sheet? For ether? //TTSAcquisition Belladonna 1. ✗
ASP-sn-react-Belladonna1 Don't you think this is a little too coincidental? ✗
ASP-react-sn-Belladonna Belladonna? Wow. Just wow.✗
ASP-c-Shiori Shiori doesn't seem happy about it either. But she's thinking. "It doesn't quite make sense, though..."// "I mean I hate to say it, but it's hard to argue with. Who else do we know with a great sense of smell?" "No, that's the thing," Shiori says sounding a little confused. "Hannah's sense of smell is awful." ✗

ASP-e5,e6 "Thinking back, so many times my mom seemed to look more bewildered than anything. It was like the only thing in the world she wasn't great at was being a mom. Like she avoided it sometimes because she didn't like not being the best at something."✓

ASP-c-Shiori-Hana "G-goodness," Shiori says, a twelve year old trying to talk like an aristocrat. Umm... verily. ✓

Seance Beats ✓
ASP-c-Alexa: I'm stopping this.✓
-cont: Tyrant!✓
-cont: Soccer mom!✓

ASP-c-Alphonse-Alexa Now Lessia, I think it's unfair to blame me for not realizing an event being held in our very courthouse was going to turn out like this.✓
ASP-c-Alexa Sure, Al. I'm convinced. Now say that to Shiori. 
ASP-c-Alphonse groans knowing she's absolutely right. ✓




swing-1-Alexa-Al Alexa dresses Al down, Mekuru acts a bit teeny ✓
-c-Alexa: "What were you thinking being there?" ✓
-cont-Alphonse: "I'm sorry. I thought it was just... some kind of magic show." ✓
-cont-Mekuru: "Maybe if you'd been paying attention, you would've caught us."✓
-cont-Alexa: "Maybe you're right..." she muttered. ✓
-cont-Mekuru: I didn't expect that. And as we rode in the car back, everything silent, Shiori sleeping with her head rested against Alphonse, ✓
I realized it hurt more that she said that. ✓


                Al's fallen asleep along with Shiori. 
                "Just wait here a moment."
                "No." I decide to be proactive. I'm coming in.
                Alexa raises an eyebrow.  She stays silent much longer than I'd expect. "Suit yourself."
                ASP-eMuto'sHouse-desc: A bunch of 90s stuff. Like Alex's Lake House. 
                It's a small trailer home. I guess some people in Sussurokawa live like this too. I feel bad saying it, but I know people see it as trashy. Inside, though, it's almost clean and tasteful. Almost.
                Crystals. Shelves full of the occult. But it's all neat and compartmentalized. Like someone had set strict borders for the crazy.
                In the very corner a gun safe. 
                I can't help but think lately that wood tells the tale. My whole house feels like it's made of oak. There's oak here, too, standing out as the nicest pieces of furniture. A desk in the corner, separated from all the crazy. The shelf with all the occult spans the entire long wall beside the door. 
                The counters though, and the dining table are pine, and actually rustic. Not the fake rustic you usually see. They're scratched and clearly used, if not secondhand.

                ASP-intro-Magi literature at prima's house 

                ASP-intro-c-Prima "Say that you won't participate in this stupid game."
                Honestly I can't help but think it's... childish. 
                ASP-e5 And don't call me Lessie. don't act familiar with me. Alexa literally only does this with Muto and Prima. I've cleared out the bushes Lessie, the gardener said. Oh, thank you!
                Getting heated outside.


                This is confusing to everyone else who do not know why. For some reason Muto, her husband sits by and watches with his arms crossed. he does nto seem like the type of man to take that sort of thing lying down. he doesn't respond though. later:"I'm a man who listens to his gut. Sometimes... you know... that you deserve something." 
