*Girl X's Diary**
I.
    I hate bugs. I really hate bugs. Lots of people hate bugs. But they don't understand what really hate is until they've had to eat a bug to survive. 

    I hate my mother.

    I hate my dad even more than her. I hate him <em>because</em> I didn't used to hate him. But he didn't say a word while she was ready to hand me over to the family. 

    I'd rather live the rest of my life in this stupid cave than go with them, or go back to <em>my </em> family. 

    I want to get out of here. But no matter how far I go in the forest I always seem to find my way back, and there's the lighthouse staring at me again. 

    Even though it's the one thing I don't hate...
2
    The lighthouse across the water means home. And home is where the fear is. This place has never been right. 

    But do I hate home? I don't know. All I know is that if I get sucked <em>into</em> home, it's going to etch itself onto my soul. That's how this place works. Because every night, I look at that light at the top, across the water and... No, nothing. 

    Nevermind.

    Not that I have much of a choice... I think their faithful little doggy caught a whiff of me. She's pathetic. But she's gonna lead them to me any day now. 

    P.S. Dandelions are actually completely edible. Did you know that? 
3
    Ugh. They caught me. They're right outside, and once they notice the entrance...
    To whoever reads this, just know I didn't go willingly. I'll see you on the other side.
    God. Who am I even talking to?






II. 



III.
IV. 
V. 
VI. 
VII. 
VIII. 

test here are 
THE DOOR IS OPEN

Alexa is led to the slaughterhouse because she sees the shadows run around



Everyone thinks the children are being stolen away. Kidnapped. Even in the past. Alexa is smart enough to know they're being 'spirited away' probably, but even in her precocious maturity she's shocked by the reality of it. 

Alexa hates apples

Alexa isn't a mother who realized she wasn't cut out to be one. She's someone who had always intended Mekuru as a sacrificial lamb, but started feeling for her. That's why the IVF thing is important, actually

this means that there needs to be a beat about alexa trying to escape. 	

Girl x, aka alexa, swears she can see worms in the apples

It's funny but you know... She's right. It's the kiddy insults that hurt the most."