**Shiori's Journal**
I. 
1
    I'm moving again... And this time not even with my parents. I'm going to stay with Monika, because for some reason it's safer with her.

    I... don't know if I like Monika, because I know Monika doesn't like me. I don't feel safe around her. I don't feel like she'd hurt me, but... 

    I wish I didn't have to run anymore.

2
    Monika picked me up and took me to my new home today. Monika's house always feels cold and scary. But I like it here. 

    I didn't think I would. Everyone is nice here. Especially everyone who lives on the hill. 

    I figured out that Monika doesn't even care where I am most of the time, so I don't have to spend time with her. I like spending time with the funny, old pirate guy! He always seems like he's having fun. There's also one other kid in the village. I want to be friends with her, but she seems kinda gloomy. I bet I could cheer her up, though. I know how to cheer myself up when I feel sad.

    Note to self: Monika really really really hates magic. Don't let her find out...

3
    I met a new friend today! She's super smart but weirdly about adult stuff. It feels like all she knows is survival skills and money management. And I'm not sure she could do either of those things. She's really proud about it though. She can survive in the wild for like, 3 months, she told me!

    I had to correct her a few times today because she kept calling moths butterflies. I'm sure she appreciates it. 

    I'll make sure to keep sharing everything I know with her, and make sure to correct her when she makes small mistakes. 

4
    My new friend punched me and I don't like her anymore. I don't even know why. And then she cried after like <em>she</em> got punched. What's up with that? I'm the one who wants to cry. 



II. 
III.
IV. 
V. 
VI. 
VII. 
VIII. 



shiori wakes up in the coffin7s

!the doctor, who is the only character from out of town who was coming in, &#! denies the existence of sussurokawa entirely.  worrying for shiori. who's mekuru?&#! mekuru sees this. in a slight vision. 7

Shiori watched the end of this universe, and the beginning of the next, Which caused Shiori's hair to turn half white	Muto helps Shiori escape in a coffin
now we a 
alexa tries to convince mekuru that shiori's powers dreamed up the woman in the mist, kurakira. this helps me make the bookmark relevant.

lamblike tendencies in shiori. black and white appearance.  	Oh. Monika is just part of the town, but she gets invited to shindigs because Mekuru and Shiori 'should get along.' It makes more sense that the townspeople would observe her strange behaviors.	thus it goes: 1. mekuru argues it's kyrie, 2. shiori denies it, and is gaslit into thinking she brought the woman into life with her mind because of creatio ex nihilo



Alexa chooses Monika well knowing that Monika is two faced but that she very ostensibly hates cults. This is an example of Alexa reading emotions well

Who kept pushing Shiori as a witch? Monika. Who was manipulating Monika? Alexa.

Monika doesn't like Shiori, or magic. Monika is a conspiracy theorist, not a cultist. At first. But she's really a turncoat. So once she realizes what's up and what's good... 


As time goes on, Monika begins to gaslight Shiori, doing magic that makes Shiori think she's accidentally killing animals,.?
Shiori at some point is egged on to use her magic in front of Monika


