
**The Netabare Apocryphon**
I. 
1 
    "Creatio ex Nihilo. It all begins with this, but the beginning is most baffling of all. And yet I've been blessed with insight.

    How many magi search after The Root or The Origin while imagining it as nothing more than a deterministic swirl? How could the seed that germinates into the universe be so simple, dull, and mechanical? Never. The hands of divinity have crafted this clock. Search for the clockmaker within the clock, and ye shall find proof. The gears are the witness. But shall ye find blood, flesh, or the hands that held the tools? 

    From whence we came. To wither we are headed. Sophia appeared before my young eyes and tried to tell me, but I turned away in fear. The sublime overwhelmed me, and I have never felt it since. I have been blind. I have been deaf. My hands are numbed, and food is ashes in my mouth. The disgusting material world has the scent of a sewer. 

    I am older and wiser; will she not see me again? Perhaps not, but the Netabare lineage will endeavor. (Sincerity can only arrive from openess)"

2   
    All great things must endeavor to last beyond the ages. And the Netabare Nest will hold fast my legacy. I will outlive those who have criticized me. That much is sure. But my legacy shall out last nations.

    The men and women who first journeyed with me to a desolate land have passed, and among them only the lovely Eris remains. 
    
    But the seeds of those pioneers had sown now bear fruit. Once lifeless, the land now sustains. Who is it that said cast not to the rocky soil? I say, the rocky soil, unclaimed, shall bear the greatest fruits. The talents we bury in the ground shall be seeds for greater talents.

    No one knows the the truth of what is nascent, what is latent, what is <em>budding</em> like Eris, who herself is an eternal bloom. Where my lowly self can only see what is, Eris can capture the scent of <em>what can be.</em> 

3 
    It is only fitting to give proper homage. From henceforth the Netabare clan shall be known as the 感覚家族 (Kankaku Kazoku), the lineage of the senses. And those who shall lead the clan, shall be comprise its face. 

    We are the 顔部家系 Kaobu Kakei, the <em>aspects of the face.</em> 

    We shall till the soil, 'til future comes, when at last Sophia, the love of my life, can be grasped once again. 


II.  world of dark, world of light. 
From whence we came. To wither we are headed. The duality of creation and destruction, is the balance of light and dark. A flash of light created this universe. But what came before?

Order was wrestled out of Chaos, and Leviathan was mastered and dominated in the deep, dark. Thus, a paradox, terrifying to those unwilling to achieve Gnossis: the dark came before the light. Is it not in the name? Creatio ex nihilo. Something from nothing, because nothing came before. Creatio ex nihilo, <em>ergo creatio post nihilo.</em>

And thus, the question must be asked. From whence we came? From darkness. To wither we are headed? If we are fools, then we shall inexorably trek toward darkness once more. 





III.
IV. 
V. 
VI. 
VII. 
VIII. 

All the heirs had a viable path, except for Nick, who wasn't truly related to his mother, a great irony
It's kinda simpy... Sophia, the love of Arcani's life. But also Eris. The contrast between Sophia and Eris. Eris is almost like a childhood friend.
"Oh my god!" Shiori exclaimed. She was like a childhood frickin' friend!

Arcani 1 is about how he shall build a lighthouse, a grand structure to meet Sophia. He talks about Felix Waechner. Powered by secrets. 
vestigium legere

In the context of your story, "vestigium legere" could indeed symbolize a more dynamic, perhaps even a bit hasty or urgent, approach to understanding or discovering knowledge. It's like a character who isn't content with just passively receiving information from a structured source like a codex, but rather is actively searching, piecing together clues, and trying to read between the lines. This method might be less methodical than following the 'spine' of a book (as with "codex"), but it could be more intuitive or holistic, capturing a sense of eagerness or desperation to uncover truth.

the observer

Now, regarding "vestigium legere," which means "to read the traces" in Latin, this is also a fascinating concept. It suggests a process of reading or interpreting the signs, clues, or remnants of something. It's akin to piecing together a story or understanding from fragments left behind, whether they're physical traces, historical records, or metaphysical signs.

blick winkel
Haha is a pun, for haha as in mother. Alexa makes this pun.



so, it's a bit too elaborate to explain in full detail, but essentially one of the characters, arekusa netabare, tries to form a path to the root by retracing literal biological conception. going by the ancient view of the microcosm reflecting the macrocosm, she believes very literally that ontogeny recapitulates cosmogeny. this is because the moment that person is conceived, a soul must enter their body from somehwere. hence, it is creatio ex nihilo, albeit in a small form. she sees this as a possible path to The Origin, otherwise known as The Root. I want to emphasize this route as the path through the codex, the codex being the double helix of DNA. similar to how a book spine holds a book together, the double helix is a structure that allow sfor a generative codex. there's quite a lot of literary allusion here, as the word codex literally means tree trunk in latin. hence, it is tracing to the roots through the trunk itself. 


Now, here' sthe thing. i want to contrast this with a second route which is important in the story. this is the path presented by shiori novella. i don't know how much of shiori nvoella's lore you know, but she explicitly has seen secret knoweldge through a bookmark. in her opening lore video she mentions seeing the beginning and end of universes. i want to make this known to the reader as the index route, whcih contrasts with the codex route. shiori's hair is parted in the middle, white on one side, black on the other. i would liek her lroe to be that she observed the moment of the end of one universe nad the creation of the next... but it's left ambiguous whether it was the end of this universe or its beginning, or if it's even cyclical. similar to reaching truth in full metal alchemist, this gives her a certain understanding of the worl dthat changes her indelibly. essenitally, shiori is allowed to peek at any moment in time. however, in a certain sense, if she peeks and 'spoils herself', it fixes the moment and makes it deterministic. this humorously matches the netabare name which means spoielrs. anyway, i have index contrasted with codex, but i need a ccontraast with ontogenetic.

ontogeny recapitulates cosmogeny


a part of alexa's theorizing that talks about different types  ontegenetic relations: twins, father and child, mother and child. but the most powerful of all these would be mother and daughter. 


Arekusa 1 which is Family Chronicle 5 calls foolish. Secrets are not found high in the sky. They are found in the depths, below. One must journey into the World of Dark to find ultimate light. Adam wriggled like a worm on the ground. Where else shall we find him?
Arekusa 1 which is Family Chronicle 5 calls Arcani's plan foolish. Secrets are not found high in the sky. They are found in the depths, below. One must journey into the World of Dark to find ultimate light. Adam wriggled like a worm on the ground. Where else shall we find him?&#!

talk about different candidates for the 'path.' it could've been clarie and kyrie, as twins.  hana and arcani could also have been candidates. chirality. elft hand right hand.  we can make a list of characteristics needed. chirality is needed for the spiral upward. 


Haha is a pun, for haha as in mother. Alexa makes this pun