Shiori and Mekuru eating candy cutely while Nick scratches his head. 


Nick looked a little uncomfortable. This isn't a topic for kids. But somehow it seems we can bully him into talking with his NPC behavior. His eyes glaze over a bit, and he sounds a bit like a recording, feeling suddenly very mannequinish. I guess they really are pliable after all. 

"We're doing a perpetual stew! I've got chocolate." "You know what? Keep to your side of the stew." a memory mekuru has. that corresponds to her taste being enhanced. 


the light hearted ness of the perpetual stew contrasts with the awful dish. 


The first Consumere Est Coniungi beat is at Hana's place. This one emphasizes copulation, coitus. Hana's thirstiness can be an aid here. This can also be the first hint of the town's bizarre makeup. Infact. We can reveal that very early on using Belladonna's Journal. I think it's highly appropriate. Introducing the idea of lineage and genetics. 


The second consumere est coniungi is during nick's scene somewhere. another statue or something is observed. here, consumere as eating is emphasized.


"The maddest she got was the time we tried to cook a perpetual stew..." "Hey! Stop adding the maple syrup! Now we're gonna have to add like eight spoons of salt!" "We could open a restaurant here!" "No. No way. This place doesn't have the economy for it. We'd have to move to the big city and do it." Alexa hopping mad. Forces them to eat it.


Mental disease like Hinamazawa Syndrome runs through the area. Maybe it's the mist that's always floating on through. I don't know. I really hope... you kids can just get out of here. People go nuts around here. We've got a lot of nutjobs. That's why Kyrie's made it her mission to raise this place out of superstition, to help people with their mental illness. I'd say it's valiant but futile. Lately more and more people are showing symptoms. 


There's... some kind of disease that runs through these parts. My mother... decided to ... end her life at one point. "I'm so sorry..." "No," Nick scratched his cheek. "It's not a fun story, but life goes on. You have to keep going. You just have to. But... it's not a story for kids to hear. I never wanted you guys to hear it. Clarie and Kyrie's father..." "And Hana's mother...?" "No, we... we don't know what happened to her. She disappeared one day. I guess we're all... hoping she just up and left. Hana's never been able to deal with it since. Al took her in as if she was his daughter."


Rotting flowers. Rotting roses. Softly rotting. Quietly rotting. This is nick's perception of hanari after the tragic incident. 



Mekuru sees a vision of a young girl being forced to eat a dish while crying. An unseen figure is glowering over her

You know my mom had a secret recipe book... She... well. She burned it, and ... let's just say she intentionally isn't here with us anymore. 

Schmutzdecke.

Shiori: I wanna churn butter! he seems happier with the conversation topic change.

mekuru early on mentions it feels like something should be in her pocket... 'why do i keep having the premonition that something should be there?'

" She would say things like ‘Oh, are we
having a nice day?’ but it didn’t sound like she cared—it was
sarcastic and derisive.” But then she mellowed out. "



yandere hana to nick. hmm. you havent been having a ltitel amouerrte have you? almost like hse's snfifing nick.an AMOURETTE is a trifling or ephemeral love affair!
the statues are all over. nick's is also at the water treatment. what a  strangely out of place statue#!
